Client detection is one of the most controversial topics in JavaScript. Because of differences in browsers, it is often necessary to fork code based on the browser's capabilities. There are several approaches to client detection, but the following three are used most frequently:

- Capability detection — Tests for specific browser capabilities before using them. For instance, a script may check to see if a function exists before calling it. This approach frees developers from worrying about specific browser types and versions, letting them simply focus on whether the capability exists or not. Capabilities detection cannot accurately detect a specific browser or version.

- Quirks detection — Quirks are essentially bugs in browser implementations, such as WebKit's early quirk of returning shadowed properties in a for-in loop. Quirks detection often involves running a short piece of code to determine if the browser has the particular quirk. Since it is less efficient than capability detection, quirks detection is used only when a specific quirk may interfere with the processing of the script. Quirks detection cannot detect a specific browser or version.

- User-agent detection — Identifies the browser by looking at its user-agent string. The user-agent string contains a great deal of information about the browser, often including the browser, platform, operating system, and browser version. There is a long history to the development of the user-agent string, with browser vendors attempting to fool web sites into believing they are another browser. User-agent detection can be tricky, especially when dealing with Opera's ability to mask its user-agent string. Even so, the user-agent string can determine the rendering engine being used and the platform on which it runs, including mobile devices and gaming systems.

When you are deciding which client-detection method to use, it's preferable to use capability detection first. Quirks detection is the second choice for determining how your code should proceed. User-agent detection is considered the last choice for client detection, because it is so dependent on the user-agent string.
